hi imagine this your best friend lives
in another city and one day he asks you
to come over
urgently today all you need is to buy a
plane ticket and you'll be there in a
matter of hours but what if you lived in
the past where there were no smartphones
or airplanes but the trip would be much
more eventful two days ago you received
a letter from a friend asking you to
come to him as soon as possible he has
something incredible and you obviously
have to see it you are intrigued and
decide to go to him at noon the next day
you drink a large amount of water before
going to bed to wake up early and by
dawn you will need the toilet so much
that you wake up Native Americans use
this method before the alarm clock was
invented you go to bed excited about the
upcoming event you wake up wanting to
use the bathroom it's still dark outside
so you probably have woken up too early
in the outhouse do you have a corn cob
instead of toilet paper don't ask how
but a lot of people use it even after
the paper appeared when you get back you
decide to get some more sleep
just like people in the 21st century
turn off their alarm clock to get a 10
minute nap you expect a rooster that
screams every morning will wake you up
but it got sick
it seems you will oversleep but the
knocker upper knocks on your window and
wakes you up on time you completely
forgot about him in many cities where
people worked in factories there was a
knocker upper a man whose profession was
walking past the houses to wake people
up so they were not late for work they
walked with a long stick and knocked on
the windows you're going to brush your
teeth so you grind some oyster shells
into powder then you rub it into your
teeth to scrape off the plaque before
the toothbrush was invented people used
everything even charcoal and in Europe
rich people had black dirty teeth
because of sugar it was a very expensive
product and poor people would blacken
their teeth to seem rich well you're
definitely not a fan of
fashioned without proper dental hygiene
life might seem bad but it wasn't quite
true back then unprocessed food such as
wheat rice fruit and veggies was natural
and safe protecting teeth and making
them even stronger you want to have
breakfast so you go to the Baker's it
isn't open yet clocks and watches
weren't a thing then so people didn't
much care about exact time only when the
first railway was open people began to
watch the time not to miss trends stores
and shops weren't an exception so there
was no clear work schedule the Baker
comes in in ten minutes and you finally
buy fresh buns you go home for breakfast
with milk and buns you don't have a
fridge but you have a fraud to prevent
the bill from spoiling people put a frog
in the milk jar the frog skin secretes
special substances that repel microbes
and the milk doesn't go sour funky but
true after breakfast you're getting
prepared for the journey your favorite
Persian sued you wash with lye on the
river yesterday is already dry you take
a pan put hot coals in it and iron the
soot with this pan you go to the city
again to hire a coach the kind you ride
around in you pay the driver and ask to
pick you up around noon you expect to
arrive at your friend's house next
morning and he must be warned about that
you come home and write a letter the
postman is not working today so you
decide to send a homing pigeon you tied
the rolled letter to its leg and let it
go the coach has arrived at your house
now you're looking at your nails they're
very long because it's been months since
you clipped them last yeah long nails
used to be a sign of luxury and wealth
but you decide to clip them to go
incognito on the road there were no nail
clippers in the old times so people use
knives instead or even sharpen shark's
teeth it was a long and tedious routine
and nobody could be bothered with that
working classes didn't think of their
nails at all breaking them in the
process of work
just before walking out you put a
smelling box in your pocket such boxes
contained a sponge dipped in perfume and
was used instead of cologne washing
wasn't common ed and was even believed
to be harmful so people got rid of body
smell as best they could with the help
of those perfume boxes the journey has
finally begun the driver has a detailed
atlas map instead of GPS you have to
ride about 200 miles almost all day and
all night
it's good you brought a book with you so
the trips going well but suddenly you
come to a river the map shows a road
though it was last updated more than a
year ago so the road has already been
washed out by the rain you have to go
around the river detailed analysis were
created to make it easier to navigate
they showed all the roads localities and
inns but while some were updated every
month others only once a year you arrive
in the city almost at night luckily your
friend has been waiting patiently at the
gates all this time and of course he
wasn't mad at you in the least half day
waiting was a mere trifle in a world
where time was not yet so important you
can't wait to find out why you came here
your friend promises to show you
something as soon as you come to his
place there you meet his family everyone
is wearing beautiful outfits and you
take your persian suit out of the
suitcase your friend invites you all to
the back yard he lines everyone up you
don't understand what's going on but you
do what he says you'll have to wait for
a little while he says wait for what
you're asking at this moment a tall man
appears near the crowd with a strange
tripod device photography the friend
answers this word means nothing to you
but you continue to stand the man with
the camera asks you to stay still and
say the word prunes
it was prunes not cheese people used to
say when photographed it gave the mouth
a more serious and noble look it was
also difficult to smile for 15 minutes
the
of making just one shot and besides
showing those teeth wasn't a very good
idea that's why people from old photos
were so serious looking after the
photography you can't believe what
happened
life is captured in a tangible image
you're shocked by this technology ensure
that the future is near we live in a new
era in the 19th century what a time to
be alive now we go back to the 21st
century you have finally arrived at your
best friend dude you should see this
look what I found in the basement
he says and shows you a super old photo
of all his ancestors from the 19th
century a guy in a strange Persian suit
who looks a lot like you is captured in
that photo - really you are amazed dude
you could have scanned it and emailed it
to me it's the 21st century outside
[Music]